---
aliases:
  - Shields
  - Sensors
  - QuDAR
allowedUsers: all
---

## Shields
Typically installed on large military, or high-value civilian vessels, shields consist of powerful **magnetic fields** generated by specifically arranged coils embedded within a ship's structure. These magnetic fields are engineered to alter the course of incoming projectiles, diverting them away from the ship to prevent impact. Given that projectiles used in battles involving capital ships are often very fast and very large, it's nearly impossible to deflect a direct hit at a 90-degree angle without expending an impossible amount of energy. To address this, the magnetic fields are designed with a **conical orientation** towards the ship's bow to make projectiles "glance" off, rather than fully divert them. Advanced shielding technology on smaller vessels can adjust the field's focal point, enabling effective deflection of projectiles approaching from angles other than directly ahead.

However, this magnetic deflection mechanism comes with significant drawbacks. First, when shields are active, a ship is unable to launch its own weapons. Because the magnetic fields would either reflect the ship's own projectiles back towards it or diminish their velocity to ineffective levels upon passing through the field. Additionally, the operation of these shields requires immense amounts of energy, making it a costly defensive measure. The high energy demand not only strains the ship's power systems but also limits the duration and frequency with which the shields can be activated, further complicating their strategic use.
## Ship Sensors
In the gaping void of space, ships need to know who, what and where other spaceships are.
### The Where & What
Apart from visual confirmation, be it through viewports or cameras, ship‘s rely on radar detection to see and pinpoint objects. Specialized, and most military ships also make use of an advanced sensory component, a **QuDAR** (Quantum Direction and Range) Mapper. This system uses virtually entangled particles to scan against the absence of a counterpart in the target location of the virtual particle in the scanner dome. Using this, the detection range extends to multiple Lightyears. But while this creates a more precise and longer range detection than radar, it is much slower to do so and prone to countermeasures.
#### Quantum Direction and Range Mapping Suite
The mechanism of detection involves creating a particle which, theoretically, should be entangled with a particle that is at the targeted location. If there is a quantum response in the virtual particle, something is detected.
This is called an _„stateless“_ tether ping, because the scan doesn’t differentiate between particle composition. These can be easily countered by creating a field of matter around the ship, such as a smoke screen or diving into a nearby nebula cloud
On the counter side, a _„stateful“_ tether ping can make a detailed image which can be analyzed, and a ship made out through conventional countermeasures or environmental conditions.

### The Who
In general, there are three types of identifying a spacecraft. These are three different levels of clarity of who the opposing ship is.
1. _Transceiver Signals_: Transceiver signals are active communication systems on spacecraft that transmit data about the ship. This data can usually include the ship's name, origin, class, purpose, and current mission.
2. _Energy Signature_: Energy signatures are passive identifiers, relying on the analysis of a combination of energy emissions from a spacecraft's operational systems. While not as specific as transceiver signals, energy signatures can reveal the size of the ship, specifications and possibly its origin (based on known technological profiles of different factions).
3. _Wake Signature_: Ships travelling through space leave faint effects on the underlying gravitational field permeating the void. Wake signatures involve analyzing the disturbance a spacecraft leaves on this field. They provide the least detailed information, typically only allowing for rough estimates of the ship's size, speed, and trajectory. The specific identity of the ship would be largely speculative without additional data.